# Solitaire

The classic Windows Solitaire, based on the adaptation of Klondike solitaire developed by Wes Cherry and shipped with Windows 3.1 to 9x. Cause of many a lost hour of productivity for office workers around the world.

## Playing Solitaire

The aim of the game is to use all the cards in the deck to build up the four _foundation_ stacks corresponding to each suit in ascending order, beginning with the aces.

You start with seven stacks of cards in the _tableau_ and the rest of the cards face down in the deck. You can click the deck to draw cards from the deck to the _waste pile_, where you can take the topmost card to use in play. When the deck is empty, click it to put all cards from the waste pile back in the deck.

Cards can be stacked in the tableau in descending order to free up cards that you need to build the foundation stacks.

Drag cards or stacks of cards to move them. Double-click cards to move them to a foundation pile if an appropriate space exists.

## Rules and scoring

Solitaire can be played with draw-one (easier) or draw-three (harder) rules. This changes how many cards are drawn from the deck to the waste pile when you click the deck.

You can choose between Standard, Vegas, or no scoring.

### Standard scoring

- When you move a card to a foundation stack, you get 10 points.
- When you move a card from the waste pile to the tableau, you get 5 points.
- When you turn over a card in the tableau, you get 5 points.
- If you move a card from a foundation stack back to the tableau, you lose 15 points.
- Every time you go through the deck, you lose 20 points if playing with **Draw Three** rules or 100 points if playing with **Draw One** rules.

### Vegas scoring

- You start the game with a debt (score) of 52 dollars, which represents your wager.
- You win back 5 dollars for every card you play to the foundation.
- The goal is to earn more money than you wagered (end the game with a negative score).