# The Palette Editor

In addition to the preset color palettes, DitherLab allows for the creation and editing of custom palettes with any number of colors. Palettes are managed and modified using the Palette Editor panel.

To open the Palette Editor, click [Palette Editor] under the palette options in the main tool pane. To close it, click the [x] button in the top right corner of the panel.

Note that currently, only editing of indexed palettes is supported. Duplicating a palette of any other type will create an indexed palette.

## Creating a custom palette

You can create a new custom palette from scratch by clicking [New], or copy an existing custom or preset palette by clicking [Duplicate].

## Deleting a custom palette

You can delete a custom palette by clicking the [Delete] button. Please note this action is irreversible and all palette data will be permanently lost.

## Renaming palettes

You can rename a custom palette by typing in the box below the palette management buttons and clicking [Save]. Note you cannot give a palette the same name as an existing palette.

## Viewing preset palettes

Preset palettes cannot be edited. Instead, the editor will display information about the palette and allow you to duplicate it as an editable custom palette.

## Adding and removing colors

With a custom palette selected, the editor will display a list of the palette's colors. Click [Add Color] at the end of the list to add a new color. Click the [-] button to the right of a color to remove it from the palette. Please note this action cannot be undone.

## Modifying colors

Clicking on a color from the list will open a color picker, where you can change the color.