# TeOS Basics

Much like a real desktop environment, everything in TeOS is an application, and applications run in windows. Each application runs within its own window, which means multiple instances of the same application can run at the same time.

## Starting applications

Applications can be started from shortcuts on the desktop or the Applications section of the Start Menu.

To open an application from a desktop shortcut, simply double-click the icon.

To open an application from the Start Menu, click on Start at the bottom left corner of the screen, and navigate to the application in the Applications menu.

## Managing windows

All windows can be moved and closed, and most windows can also be resized and maximized.

### Moving and resizing windows

To move a window, simply drag from anywhere on the title bar. To resize a window, drag starting from its border. The cursor will change to dual arrows when the window can be resized by dragging, and the direction of the arrows indicates the direction of resizing.

Drag from the corners to change the width and height of a window at the same time.

### Maximizing and closing windows

Windows can be maximized to take up the entire desktop area by clicking on the maximize button at the top right corner or double-clicking anywhere on the title bar. The same action will restore a maximized window to its original size.

Windows can be closed by clicking the [x] close button at the top right corner of the title bar. Be aware that closing a window will terminate the application running in it, and application state will be lost. Chosen settings are preserved.

## Saving state

This website saves its state to your browser, so your open windows, theme, and settings are all preserved if you close the tab and open it again. Some applications will preserve their state, while others reset on site reload.

Deleting site data will wipe all your data, including theme customizations and application settings.